Question 1 : What is Azure Data Factory?
				ADF is a cloud based integration service , which allows you to create datadriven workflows in cloud for orchestration 
                                and automating data movement , data transformation..
				we can create and schedule data driven workflows using adf also called pipeline.
				that can ingest the data from various sources.
				it can process and transform the data using compute services 
				such as HDInsight Hadoop, Spark, Azure Data Lake Analytics, and Azure Machine Learning
				
Question 2 : Windows Azure Storage?
				We have manly 4 type of storage in azure
					i) Queue
					ii) Table
					iii) BLOBs (Binary Large Objects) 
					iv) VHD (Windows Azure Drives)
					
Question 3 : What is the integration runtime?
				IR is a compute infrastruture that ADF use to provide various data integration capabilities accross various network
				we have 3 types integration run time
					i) Azure integration runtime - we can copy the data between cloud data stores and dispacth it to compute services for transformation.
					ii) Self hosted integration runtime - as the name signifies that we can install it on premise machine and virtual machine in a virtual network.
						SHIR can run copy activity between public cloud data stores and data store in a private network
						It can also dispatch transformation activities against compute resources in a private network.   XXX
						We use Self Hosted IR because Data factory will not be able to directly access on-primitive data sources as they sit behind a firewall. 
						
					iii) Azure SSIS integration runtime
					
					
Question 4 : What is the limit on the number of integration runtimes?
				There is hard code limit on the number of integration runtime instance in ADF.
				but there is a limit on VM cores that intergration runtime can use per subscription
				
Question 5 : What is blob storage in Azure?
				Azure blob storage is a service which is used for storing large amount of data of diffrent types
				We can use blob storage for sharing the data publicly 
				or store application data privately
				
				Common uses of blob storage.
					i) storing files ,like audio vedio
					ii) storing data as a backup, data disaster recovery, 
					iii) data analytics
					
Question 6 : What are the steps for creating ETL process in Azure Data Factory?
				While trying to extract data from any sources such as sql server, if something has to be processed.
				then it will be processed and is stored in the Data Lake Store. 
				Steps for Creating ETL
					Create a Linked Service for source data store which is SQL Server Database
					Create a Linked Service for destination data store which is Azure Data Lake Store
					Create a dataset for Data Saving
					Create the pipeline and add copy activity
					Schedule the pipeline by adding a trigger
					
					
Question 7 : What are the top-level concepts of Azure Data Factory?
				Pipeline - It acts as a carrier in which we have various processes taking place.				
				activity - Activities represent the processing steps in a pipeline.
				datasets - it is data structure which holds our data
				linked services - These store information that is very important when it comes to connecting an external source.

Question 8 : How can I schedule a pipeline?
				You can use the 
				i) scheduler trigger 
				ii) time window trigger 					to schedule a pipeline.
					The trigger uses a wall-clock calendar schedule, 
					which can schedule pipelines periodically or in calendar-based recurrent patterns (for example, on Mondays at 6:00 PM and Thursdays at 9:00 PM)
					
Question 9 : Can I pass parameters to a pipeline run?
				Yes we can pass paramters to a pipeline run
					i) Define the parameters at the pipeline level
					ii) pass argument/value as you execute the pipeline run on demand or by using a trigger

Question 10 : Can I define default values for the pipeline parameters?
				You can define default values for the parameters in the pipelines.

Question 11 : Can an activity in a pipeline consume arguments that are passed to a pipeline run?
				Each activity within the pipeline can consume the parameter value that’s passed to the pipeline and run 
				with the @parameter construct.
Question 12 : Can an activity output property be consumed in another activity?
				An activity output can be consumed in a subsequent activity with the @activity construct

Question 13 : How do I gracefully handle null values in an activity output?
				You can use the @coalesce construct in the expressions to handle the null values gracefully.

Question 14 : Which Data Factory version do I use to create data flows?
				Use the Data Factory V2 version to create data flows					
				
Question 15 : Explain the two levels of security in ADLS Gen2?



Question 16 : What is table storage in Windows Azure?



Question 17 : What is Azure Functions?
				Azure funtions is a solution for executing a peice of code or funtions in the cloud.
				we can also select the programming language we want to use.
				we pay only for the time we excute our code.
				It supports continuous deployment and integration.
				
Question 18 : What is Azure HdInsight Cluster?
				Azure HdInsight is a cloud service that makes easy, fast and cost effective to process masive amount of data using open source framework.
				like Hadoop, Spark, Hive, LLAP, Kafka, Storm and R.
				
Question 19 : What is Azure Data Lake
				Azure data lake is a service which is provided by microsoft azure to store massive amount of data for unlimited time.
				Azure data lake is divided into 2 parts
					i) Data Analytics -  is a service that you use to run big data jobs on the data that is stored in data storage.
					ii) Data storage - we can store any amount of data and unlimited time
					
			  note: - Data lake is a huge repository where you can store your data in object or named format
			  
Question 20 : What is SQL Azure database?
				SQL Azure database is just an approach to get associated with cloud services where you can store your 
				database into the cloud.


Question 21 : How to stop a running slice?
				If you need to stop the pipeline from executing, you can use Suspend-AzDataFactoryPipeline cmdlet. 
				Currently, suspending the pipeline does not stop the slice executions that are in progress. 
				Once the in-progress executions finish, no extra slice is picked up